# CNVrecaller

## Description
CNVrecaller is a tool designed for converting CNVR VCF (Variant Call Format) genotypes generated by CNVcaller to binary coding. This tool simplifies the analysis of copy number variations (CNVs) by providing a straightforward way to encode genotype data. It is a Python-based tool designed to parse VCF (Variant Call Format) files generated by CNVcaller and converts them into a binary format representing presence and absence variations. This software specifically focuses on encoding genotype information for copy number variations (CNVRs).


## Table of Contents
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Example Input File](#example-input-file)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Features

- Converts VCF genotypes to binary coding.
- Easy to use via command line.
- Supports VCF files with CNVR genotypes.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   git clone https://github.com/chau-mau/CNVrecaller.git
   cd CNVrecaller

2. Build the executable:
   pyinstaller --onefile CNVrecaller

3. Optionally, move the executable to a directory in your PATH:
   sudo mv dist/CNVrecaller /usr/local/bin/cnvrecaller

4. Clean Up (Optional)
   After confirming that your executable works, you can clean up unnecessary files created by PyInstaller
   rm -rf build/ CNVrecaller.spec


## Usage
To use CNVrecaller, run the following command:
    CNVrecaller -m binary -i input.vcf -o output.vcf
Parameters:
    -m or --mode: Specifies the coding mode (currently only binary is supported).
    -i or --input: The input VCF file.
    -o or --output: The output file where the coded genotypes will be saved.

## Example Input File
An example input VCF file (example.vcf) is included in the repository. You can use this file to test the tool.
Contributing

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! If you have suggestions for improvements or bug fixes, please create an issue or submit a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the License

Copyright (c) [2024] [Dr. Nidhi Sukhija]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

...

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
